In the final project, you will work in groups of four to six to apply the Data Science
techniques to a new setting that you're interested in. Note that regardless of the group size,
all groups must submit the work detailed in each milestone. Additionally, each team must
submit a completed project. All projects require students to spend time gathering data and
setting up the infrastructure to reach an end result. Each member of the team should
contribute to both technical and non-technical components of the project.
You will build a system to solve a well-defined task. Which task you choose is completely
open-ended, but the methods you use should draw on the ones from the course. Please
note that finding the right problem is important and this exploration is an essential part of
the project

Project Update

o Introduction - Brief overview of your problem.

o Literature Review - Description of other work/papers you've found that are
related to your task. Just mentioning a paper is not sufficient; you should at least
go into brief detail about what kind of approach they are using/how it relates to
your work if it's not immediately clear. When looking at relevant literature
examine if there have there been other attempts to build a similar system.
Compare and contrast your approach with existing work, citing the relevant
papers. The comparison should be more than just high-level descriptions. You
should try to fit your work and other work into the same framework. Are the two
approaches complementary, orthogonal, or contradictory?

o Dataset - Description of data you are using - size of dataset, distribution of
classes, any preprocessing you needed to do.

o Baseline - Description and implementation of your baseline. Please provide a
detailed description of your implemented baseline along with evaluation of the
baseline using the metrics you define.

o Main approach - Propose a model and an algorithm for tackling your task. You
should describe the model and algorithm in detail and use a concrete example
to demonstrate how the model and algorithm work. Don't describe methods in
general; describe precisely how they apply to your problem (what are the
inputs/outputs, variables, factors, states, etc.)?

o Evaluation Metric - Please include what metrics, both qualitative and
quantitative, you are using to evaluate the success of your problem. If relevant
please include equations to describe your metrics.

o Results & Analysis - At this point, you should have fully implemented your
baseline and also have a basic working implementation of your main approach.
Please include the performance of your baseline as well as the performance of
your main approach so far. Include an analysis of your results, and how this
might inform your next steps in fine-tuning your main approach.

I will do all sorts of figures and comparisons between our results and what is expected. We do not have any improvements over SOTA, but we can just interpret the results we have

o Future Work - This is not mandatory, but it might be helpful to get an idea of
what next steps you plan to take after the milestone.

o References - Please include a reference section with properly formatted
citations. (Not included in 4 page limit).

